File Format
-----------

Most everything is stored in a single file (`scowl.txt`) with the following format:

    FILE := CLUSTER ...
            [FOOTNOTES]

    CLUSTER := GROUP ...
               [CLUSTER-COMMENT] ...

    GROUP := LINE ...
             [GROUP-COMMENT]
             '\n'

    LINE := SCOWL_INFO ': '
            [(VARIANT-INFO ' ' ... | OVERRIDE) ': ']
            LEMMA_INFO
            [': ' ENTRY ', ' ...]
            ['#!' WARNING] ...
            ['#' COMMENT] ...
            '\n'

    SCOWL_INFO := SIZE [' ' REGION] [' ' CATEGORY] ([' ' TAG] ...)

    LEMMA_INFO := LEMMA [' <' POS ['/' POS-CLASS ] '>'] [' {' DEFN-NOTE '}'] [' (' USAGE-NOTE ')']

    REGION := 'US' | 'GB' | 'CA' | 'AU'

    TAG := '[' TAG-TEXT ']'

    LEMMA := [GROUP-ANNOTATION] WORD [ANNOTATION] | '-'

    VARIANT-INFO := SPELLING [VARIANT-LEVEL]

    SPELLING := 'A' | 'B' | 'Z' | 'C' | 'D' | '_'

    VARIANT-LEVEL := '.' | '=' | '?' | 'v' | '~' | 'V' | '-' | '@' | 'x'

    OVERRIDE := '+'

    GROUP-ANNOTATION := '-' | '@' | '!'

    ANNOTATION := '*' | '-' | '@' | '~' | '!' | '†'

    ENTRY := DERIVED | '(' [DERIVED-VARIANT-INFO ' ' ... ': '] DERIVED '|' ... ')'

    DERIVED := WORD [ANNOTATION] | '-'

    DERIVED-VARIANT-INFO := [SPELLING] [VARIANT-LEVEL]

    GROUP-COMMENT := '## ' COMMENT-TEXT

    CLUSTER-COMMENT :=  '## ' HEADWORD [' (' OTHER-WORDS ')'] ':\n'
                        ('## ' COMMENT-TEXT '\n') ...
                        '\n'

    FOOTNOTES := ('#: ' FOOTNOTE-TEXT '\n') ...

Anything between single quotes is a literal.  Space is only present if it is
within single quotes.  Within a literal the `\n` means a new line.  Anything
between square brackets (`[]`) is optional.  The Bar (`|`) means a choice
between one or the other.  The ellipsis (`...`) means to optionally repeat the
previous element(s).  If the ellipsis is after a literal, it means to repeat,
but use the preceding literal as a separator.

A CLUSTER is a very loose groupings of groups in order to keep related words
together.  There is no indication within the file itself what the clusters are.

A GROUP represents one sense of a word.  Groups are separated by empty lines.

SIZE is the SCOWL size with larger numbers meaning less common words.
The sizes have the following approximate meanings:

    35: small
    50: medium
    60: medium-large (size used for default spell checking dictionary)
    70: large (size used for large spell checking dictionary)
    80: a valid word in current usage
    85: a valid word
    

A TAG is sometimes used to provide information on what source list the word
came from.

The source for the majority of words is from lists that Alan Beale has a large
part in creating, which provides a level of consistency.  These lists are then
supplemented from a number of signature lists.  Most of these words are
unmarked.  Finally, some additional sources were used that Alan had no part
in and are often of British origin, words from these lists are tagged as the
fact they are from an alternative source provides useful information.

Words from a few special lists are also tagged.

Anything that starts with `#!` or `#:` is generated by the database export
code and is ignored when parsing.  Similarly the `†` annotation is generated by
the export code and ignored when parsing.

The '#:' lines at the end of the file contain dumps of various information
from the database.  If there is any disagreement between the documentation and
this information, the information at the end of the file takes precedence.

The LEMMA is the base form of the word.

The part of speeches (POS) or as follows:

    n: noun
    v: verb
    m: noun/verb
    aj: adjective
    av: adverb
    a: adjective/adverb
    pn: pronoun
    c: conjunction
    pp: preposition
    d: determiner
    i: interjection
    abbr: abbreviation
    s: contraction
    pre: prefix
    suf: suffix
    wp: multi-word part
    we: multi-word ending
    x: non word (for example a roman numeral)
    n_v: noun and verb
    aj_av: adjective and adverb

The `m` and `a` are special POS'es that should not be used for new entries.
The `m` is assigned when all the word forms for a verb were found in a word
list, but no POS info was found for that word.  It is probably a verb and
could also be a noun.  Similarly, The `a` means it could be an adjective or
adverb.

The `n_v` and `aj_av` are special combined POS'es.

Within a line the derived forms of a word are in a specific order.  A single
dash (`-`) is used if a particular word form is missing.  The order is one of:

    n: n0
    n: n0 [ns] [np]
    n: n0 ns np nsp

    v: v0
    v: v0 vd [vn] vg vs
    v: v0 vd vd2 vn vg vs vs2 vs3 vs4

    n_v: m0
    n_v: m0 vd [vn] vg ms [np]
    n_v: m0 vd [vn] vg ms np nsp

    m: m0
    m: m0 vd [vn] vg ms

    pn: p0
    pn: p0 pn1 pns pnd pnp pnr0 pnrs

    d: d
    d: d ds
    d: d d1 d2

    a*: a*0
    a*: a*0 a*1 a*2

    we: we [wes] [wep]
    we: we wes wep weps

Entries marked by square brackets are optional and can be excluded without the
use of a dash placeholder.  Trailing entries for pronouns (pn) can also be
excluded without the use of a dash placeholder.

The derived forms are as follows:

    n0: noun
    ns: noun: plural
    nss: noun: plural of plural
    np: noun: possessive
    nsp: noun: plural possessive
    nssp: noun: plural of plural possessive
    v0: verb
    vd: verb: past tense (-ed)
    vd2: verb: past tense plural (were)
    vn: verb: past participle (-en)
    vg: verb: present participle (-ing)
    vs: verb: present tense (-s)
    vs2: verb: present tense second-person singular (are)
    vs3: verb: present tense third-person singular (is)
    vs4: verb: present tense plural (are)
    m0: noun/verb
    ms: noun/verb: (-s)
    aj0: adjective
    aj1: adjective: comparative (-er)
    aj2: adjective: superlative (-est)
    av0: adverb
    av1: adverb: comparative (-er)
    av2: adverb: superlative (-est)
    a0: adjective/adverb
    a1: adjective/adverb: comparative (-er)
    a2: adjective/adverb: superlative (-est)
    pn0: pronoun
    pn1: pronoun: objective (you/him/her/...)
    pns: pronoun: plural
    pnd: pronoun: determiner (your/his/her/...)
    pnp: pronoun: possessive (yours/his/hers/...)
    pnr0: pronoun: reflexive singular (yourself/...)
    pnrs: pronoun: reflexive plural (yourselves/...)
    c: conjunction
    pp: preposition
    d: determiner
    ds: determiner: plural
    d1: determiner: comparative
    d2: determiner: superlative
    i: interjection
    abbr: abbreviation
    s: contraction
    pre: prefix
    suf: suffix
    wp: multi-word part
    we: multi-word ending
    wes: multi-word ending: plural
    wep: multi-word ending: possessive
    weps: multi-word ending: plural possessive
    x: non word

The POS-CLASS is a string to qualify the POS, for example `place`.  The
current tags are experimental and at the moment can't be used to reliably
filter out proper nouns.

The DEFN-NOTE is used to distinguish two different senses of the same lemma.

The USAGE-NOTE is used to mark offensive, vulgar, slang, informal, non-standard
and other similar words.  At the moment the marking of offensive, vulgar only
really covers the worst offenders and the marking of non-standard and similar
words is very incomplete.

The SPELLING codes and REGION tags are as follows:

    A: US: American
    B: GB: British "ise" spelling
    Z: GB: British "ize" or Oxford spelling
    C: CA: Canadian
    D: AU: Australian
    _:     Other (Never used with any of the above).

A SPELLING code classifies alternative spellings of the same word. A REGION
tag labels entries that are specific to a particular region.

Within a group, if there are no lines with the `Z` SPELLING code then `B`
implies `Z`; similarly if `C` is missing then `Z` implies `C`, and if `D` is
missing then `B` implies `D`.

The VARIANT-LEVELs are as follows:

     : 0: non-variant
    .: 1: include
    =: 2: equal
    ?: 3: disagreement
    v: 4: common
    ~: 5: variant
    V: 6: acceptable
    -: 7: uncommon
    @: 8: archaic
    x: 9: invalid

`v` is used for common variants where there is clear agreement on the
preferred form and the variant is reasonably frequent.  `V` is used for less
common but still clearly acceptable variants; typical cases are variants
marked as “also” in Merriam-Webster, or spellings that are only recognized by
some major dictionaries.  `-` is used when the variant is generally not listed
in standard dictionaries, but there is some evidence of real-world usage.  `@`
is used for archaic spellings of the word.  `x` is used for outright
misspellings that are only included for completeness.

The `.`, `=`, and `?` indicators are special cases for when there is no single
clearly preferred form.  `.` is used when both forms are considered
equal and should be included in the default word list; it is generally used
when the spellings are different enough that it is unlikely one will be
confused with the other.  `=` means they are still equal but only the form
without a variant marker should be included by default.  `?` is used when
there is some disagreement but one form is generally preferred over the other.

The `~` indicator is used for legacy data when no information is available on
the level.

An annotation is one of the following:

    *: usage dependent
    -: uncommon
    @: archaic
    ~: inapplicable
    !: infrequent
    †: ambiguous lemma

The `*` annotation is used for nouns when, depending on usage, the plural is
sometimes same as the singular form.  This is generally used for certain
animals (especially fish) and cardinal numbers.

The `†` is added by the database export code to indicate that the spelling of
the derived form is also used for a separate unrelated lemma.

The `-` is used to mark a significantly less common form of a word.  `~` is
used to mark plurals nouns that are generally not used, for one reason or
another, except in very specific circumstances.  `!` is used for forms of a
word that are nearly non-existent.  `@` is used to mark archaic forms a word.
